---
---
<table width="100%" data-border="0" data-cellspacing="0"
data-cellpadding="3" data-bgcolor="#C0C0C0">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;"><strong>Concluding Remarks<br />
</strong></td>
<td style="text-align: right;"><a href="hint.html">[Previous]</a> <a
href="generalintroduction.html">[Main]</a> <a
href="languageinformation.html">[Next]</a></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

  
That concludes *The Quest of the Golden Banana* as far as we are going
to take it; it also concludes our tour of the adv3 library.  
  
One thing I can be quite sure of at this point is that I won't have
covered some point or other that you hoped to see discussed. This was,
after all, a guided tour of the TADS 3 library, not an exhaustive
discussion of all its features. The attempt to be fully exhaustive would
probably have meant that this Guide would have grown to four times its
present size - too large to be genuinely useful - or, even more
probably, would never have seen the light of day at all. To have
attempted to discuss every possible tweak and modification to the
standard library to produce every kind of effect that any game author
might want would have been totally impossible. If following this Tour
Guide has helped you to feel more confident that you know your way round
the main thoroughfares of the adv3 library, it will have served its
purpose; the exploration of the side-streets, by-ways and back-alleys is
now up to you (with the aid of the comments in the library source code,
an adventuring spirit, and plenty of experimentation).  
  
There are, however, some things that have not been covered in this Tour
Guide because they are already covered elsewhere, and it is not the
purpose of this Guide to regurgitate material that is already reasonably
well documented. Instead, a few pointers to that other documentation
will be given in the sections that follow.  
  
If there is something really central you feel I have omitted, by all
means drop me a line (eric dot eve at hmc dot ox dot ac dot uk) to let
me know. If you spot any typos or other errors in this guide, or find
any bugs in the Golden Banana game, *please, please* do drop me a line
to let me know, so I can correct it for future versions. All feedback
and suggestions will be warmly welcomed.  
