---
---
## GlobalÂ Messages

<span id="acknowledge notify status">DMsg(acknowledge notify
status)</span> , (acknowledge notify status, '\<.parser\>Score
notifications are now

<span id="actor already in">BMsg(actor already in)</span> , (actor
already in, '{I}{\\m} already {in dobj}. ')

<span id="actor arriving">DMsg(actor arriving)</span> , (actor arriving,
'{The subj traveler} {arrives} in the area. ');

<span id="actor is here">DMsg(actor is here)</span> , (actor is here,
'{The subj myactor} {is} {here}. ');

<span id="actor nested location name">BMsg(actor nested location
name)</span> , (actor nested location name,

<span id="actor not in">BMsg(actor not in)</span> , (actor not
in,'{I}{\\m} not in {the dobj}. ')

<span id="actor not on">BMsg(actor not on)</span> , (actor not
on,'{I}{\\m} not on {the dobj}. ')

<span id="actor stays put">BMsg(actor stays put)</span> , (actor stays
put, '{I} {wait} in vain for {1} to

<span id="aft">BMsg(aft)</span> , (aft, 'aft')

<span id="all not allowed">DMsg(all not allowed)</span> , (all not
allowed, 'Sorry; ALL is not allowed with this command.

<span id="already attached">BMsg(already attached)</span> , (already
attached, '{The subj dobj} {is} already

<span id="already back there">DMsg(already back there)</span> , (already
back there, '{I}{\\m} already there. ');

<span id="already clean">BMsg(already clean)</span> , (already clean,
'{The subj dobj} {is} already quite

<span id="already closed">BMsg(already closed)</span> , (already
closed,'{The subj dobj} {isn\\t} open. ')

<span id="already fastened">BMsg(already fastened)</span> , (already
fastened, '{The subj dobj} {is} already

<span id="already has">BMsg(already has)</span> , (already has, '{The
subj iobj} already {has}

<span id="already holding">BMsg(already holding)</span> , (already
holding, '{I}{\\m} already holding {the dobj}.

<span id="already in">BMsg(already in)</span> , (already in, '{The subj
dobj} {is} already {in iobj}. ')

<span id="already lit">BMsg(already lit)</span> , (already lit, '{The
subj dobj} {is} already lit. ')

<span id="already locked">BMsg(already locked)</span> , (already locked,
'{The subj dobj} {is} already

<span id="already moved to">BMsg(already moved to)</span> , (already
moved to, '{The subj dobj} {has} already

<span id="already on">BMsg(already on)</span> , (already on, '{I}{\\m}
already {in dobj}. ')

<span id="already open">BMsg(already open)</span> , (already open, '{The
subj dobj} {is} already open. ')

<span id="already plugged in">BMsg(already plugged in)</span> , (already
plugged in, '{The subj dobj} {is} already

<span id="already plugged in vagaue">BMsg(already plugged in
vagaue)</span> , (already plugged in vagaue, '{The subj {dobj} {is}

<span id="already present">BMsg(already present)</span> , (already
present, '{The subj dobj} {is} right

<span id="already pulled">BMsg(already pulled)</span> , (already pulled,
'{The subj dobj} {is} already in the

<span id="already pushed">BMsg(already pushed)</span> , (already pushed,
'{The subj dobj} {is} already in the

<span id="already set">BMsg(already set)</span> , (already set, '{The
subj dobj} {is} already set to {1}.

<span id="already standing">DMsg(already standing)</span> , (already
standing, '{I} {am} standing. ');

<span id="already switched on">BMsg(already switched on)</span> ,
(already switched on, '{The subj dobj} {is} already

<span id="already talking">DMsg(already talking)</span> , (already
talking, '{I}{\\m} already talking to {1}. ',

<span id="already there">BMsg(already there)</span> , (already there,
'{I}{\\m} already there. ')

<span id="already worn">BMsg(already worn)</span> , (already worn,
'{I}{\\m} already wearing {the dobj}. ')

<span id="antecedent out of scope">DMsg(antecedent out of scope)</span>
, (antecedent out of scope,

<span id="ask about">DMsg(ask about)</span> , (ask about, 'ask {him
interlocutor} about ');

<span id="ask for">DMsg(ask for)</span> , (ask for, 'ask {him
interlocutor} for ');

<span id="ask query">DMsg(ask query)</span> , (ask query, 'ask {him
interlocutor} ');

<span id="basic score change">DMsg(basic score change)</span> , (basic
score change,

<span id="be more specific">DMsg(be more specific)</span> , (be more
specific, 'I don\\t know which ones you mean. Can you be more
specific?');

<span id="cannot attach">BMsg(cannot attach)</span> , (cannot attach,
'{I} {cannot} attach {the dobj} to

<span id="cannot attach to">BMsg(cannot attach to)</span> , (cannot
attach to, '{I} {cannot} attach anything to

<span id="cannot attach to self">BMsg(cannot attach to self)</span> ,
(cannot attach to self, '{I} {cannot} attach

<span id="cannot attack">BMsg(cannot attack)</span> , (cannot attack,
'It{dummy}{\\s} best to avoid

<span id="cannot attack with">BMsg(cannot attack with)</span> , (cannot
attack with, '{I} {can\\t} attack

<span id="cannot attack with self">BMsg(cannot attack with self)</span>
, (cannot attack with self, '{I} {can\\t}

<span id="cannot be attached">BMsg(cannot be attached)</span> , (cannot
be attached, '{The subj dobj} {cannot} be

<span id="cannot be plugged in">BMsg(cannot be plugged in)</span> ,
(cannot be plugged in, '{The subj dobj} {can\\t}

<span id="cannot board">BMsg(cannot board)</span> , (cannot board, '{The
subj dobj} {is} not something {i}

<span id="cannot board carried">BMsg(cannot board carried)</span> ,
(cannot board carried, '{I} {can\\t} get on {the

<span id="cannot break">BMsg(cannot break)</span> , (cannot break, '{The
subj dobj} {is} not the sort of

<span id="cannot burn">BMsg(cannot burn)</span> , (cannot burn, '{I}
{cannot} burn {the dobj}. ')

<span id="cannot burn with">BMsg(cannot burn with)</span> , (cannot burn
with, '{I} {can\\t} burn {the dobj}

<span id="cannot carry any more">DMsg(cannot carry any more)</span> ,
(cannot carry any more, '{I} {can\\t} carry any more than

<span id="cannot clean">BMsg(cannot clean)</span> , (cannot clean, '{The
subj dobj} {is} not something {i}

<span id="cannot clean with">BMsg(cannot clean with)</span> , (cannot
clean with, '{I} {can\\t} clean {the dobj}

<span id="cannot climb">BMsg(cannot climb)</span> , (cannot climb,'{The
subj dobj} {is} not something {i}

<span id="cannot climb down">BMsg(cannot climb down)</span> , (cannot
climb down, '{The subj dobj} {is} not

<span id="cannot command system action">DMsg(cannot command system
action)</span> , (cannot command system action, 'Only the player can
carry out

<span id="cannot command thing">DMsg(cannot command thing)</span> ,
(cannot command thing, 'There{dummy}\\s no point trying to give

<span id="cannot consult">BMsg(cannot consult)</span> , (cannot consult,
'{The subj dobj} {is} not a

<span id="cannot cut">BMsg(cannot cut)</span> , (cannot cut, '{I}
{can\\t} cut {the dobj}. ')

<span id="cannot cut with">BMsg(cannot cut with)</span> , (cannot cut
with, '{I} {can\\t} cut anything with

<span id="cannot cut with self">BMsg(cannot cut with self)</span> ,
(cannot cut with self, '{I} {cannot} cut anything

<span id="cannot detach">BMsg(cannot detach)</span> , (cannot detach,
'There{dummy} {is}n\\t anything from

<span id="cannot detach from">BMsg(cannot detach from)</span> , (cannot
detach from, 'There{dummy} {is}n\\t

<span id="cannot detach from self">BMsg(cannot detach from self)</span>
, (cannot detach from self, '{The subj dobj}

<span id="cannot detach from this">BMsg(cannot detach from this)</span>
, (cannot detach from this , 'The {subj dobj}

<span id="cannot detach this">BMsg(cannot detach this)</span> , (cannot
detach this, '{The subj dobj) {cannot} be

<span id="cannot dig">BMsg(cannot dig)</span> , (cannot dig, '{I}
{can\\t} dig there. ')

<span id="cannot dig with">BMsg(cannot dig with)</span> , (cannot dig
with, '{I} {can\\t} dig anything with

<span id="cannot dig with self">BMsg(cannot dig with self)</span> ,
(cannot dig with self, '{I} {can\\t} dig {the

<span id="cannot do that while attached">DMsg(cannot do that while
attached)</span> , (cannot do that while attached, '{I} {can\\t} do that
while {the subj

<span id="cannot do that while wearing">DMsg(cannot do that while
wearing)</span> , (cannot do that while wearing, '{I} {can\\t} do that
while

<span id="cannot drop">BMsg(cannot drop)</span> , (cannot drop, '{The
subj dobj} {can\\t} be dropped. ')

<span id="cannot eat">BMsg(cannot eat)</span> , (cannot eat, '{The subj
dobj} {is} plainly inedible. ')

<span id="cannot enter">BMsg(cannot enter)</span> , (cannot enter, '{The
subj dobj} {is} not something {i}

<span id="cannot enter carried">BMsg(cannot enter carried)</span> ,
(cannot enter carried, '{I} {can\\t} get in {the

<span id="cannot enter on">BMsg(cannot enter on)</span> , (cannot enter
on, '{I} {can\\t} enter anything on

<span id="cannot extinguish">BMsg(cannot extinguish)</span> , (cannot
extinguish, '{The dobj} {cannot} be

<span id="cannot fasten">BMsg(cannot fasten)</span> , (cannot fasten,
'{That subj dobj}{\\s} not something

<span id="cannot fasten to">BMsg(cannot fasten to)</span> , (cannot
fasten to, '{I} {can\\t} fasten anything to

<span id="cannot fasten to self">BMsg(cannot fasten to self)</span> ,
(cannot fasten to self, '{The subj iobj}

<span id="cannot feel">BMsg(cannot feel)</span> , (cannot feel, 'It{\\s}
hardly a good idea to try feeling

<span id="cannot flip">BMsg(cannot flip)</span> , (cannot flip, '{I}
{can\\t} usefully flip {the dobj}. ')

<span id="cannot follow">BMsg(cannot follow)</span> , (cannot follow,
'{The subj dobj} {isn\\t} going

<span id="cannot follow from here">BMsg(cannot follow from here)</span>
, (cannot follow from here, '{I} {can\\t} follow

<span id="cannot follow self">BMsg(cannot follow self)</span> , (cannot
follow self, '{I} {can\\t} follow

<span id="cannot give to">BMsg(cannot give to)</span> , (cannot give to,
'{I} {can\\t} give anything to {that

<span id="cannot go">BMsg(cannot go)</span> , (cannot go, '{I} {can\\t}
go that way. ' )

<span id="cannot go in dark">BMsg(cannot go in dark)</span> , (cannot go
in dark, 'It{dummy}{\\s} too dark

<span id="cannot go there">BMsg(cannot go there)</span> , (cannot go
there, '{I} {can\\t} go there right

<span id="cannot go through">BMsg(cannot go through)</span> , (cannot go
through,'{I} {can\\t} go through {that

<span id="cannot go through closed door">BMsg(cannot go through closed
door)</span> , (cannot go through closed door,

<span id="cannot hear">BMsg(cannot hear)</span> , (cannot hear, '{I}
{can\\t} hear {1}

<span id="cannot jump off">BMsg(cannot jump off)</span> , (cannot jump
off, '{I}{\\m} not on {the dobj}. ')

<span id="cannot kiss">BMsg(cannot kiss)</span> , (cannot kiss, '{I}
really {can\\t} kiss {that dobj}. ')

<span id="cannot lie on">BMsg(cannot lie on)</span> , (cannot lie on,
'{The subj dobj} {isn\\t}

<span id="cannot light">BMsg(cannot light)</span> , (cannot light, '{The
subj dobj} {is} not something

<span id="cannot lock with">BMsg(cannot lock with)</span> , (cannot lock
with, '{I} {can\\t} lock anything with

<span id="cannot lock with self">BMsg(cannot lock with self)</span> ,
(cannot lock with self, '{I} {can\\t} lock

<span id="cannot look behind">BMsg(cannot look behind)</span> , (cannot
look behind, '{I} {can\\t} look behind

<span id="cannot look through">BMsg(cannot look through)</span> ,
(cannot look through, '{I} {can\\t} look through

<span id="cannot look under">BMsg(cannot look under)</span> , (cannot
look under, '{I} {can\\t} look under {that

<span id="cannot move to">BMsg(cannot move to)</span> , (cannot move to,
'{The subj dobj} {can\\t} be moved to

<span id="cannot move to self">BMsg(cannot move to self)</span> ,
(cannot move to self, '{The subj dobj} {can\\t}

<span id="cannot move while attached">DMsg(cannot move while
attached)</span> , (cannot move while attached, '{The subj cobj}
{cannot} be moved

<span id="cannot move with">BMsg(cannot move with)</span> , (cannot move
with, '{I} {can\\t} move {the dobj}

<span id="cannot move with self">BMsg(cannot move with self)</span> ,
(cannot move with self, '{The subj dobj}

<span id="cannot open">BMsg(cannot open)</span> , (cannot open, '{The
subj dobj} {is} not something {i}

<span id="cannot plug">BMsg(cannot plug)</span> , (cannot plug, '{The
subj dobj} {can\\t} be plugged into

<span id="cannot plug in any more">BMsg(cannot plug in any more)</span>
, (cannot plug in any more, '{I} {can\\t} plug

<span id="cannot plug into">BMsg(cannot plug into)</span> , (cannot plug
into, '{I} {can\\t} plug anything into

<span id="cannot plug into self">BMsg(cannot plug into self)</span> ,
(cannot plug into self, '{I} {can\\t} plug

<span id="cannot pour">BMsg(cannot pour)</span> , (cannot pour, '{I}
{can\\t} pour {1} anywhere. ',

<span id="cannot pour in self">BMsg(cannot pour in self)</span> ,
(cannot pour in self, '{I} {can\\t} pour {the

<span id="cannot pour into">BMsg(cannot pour into)</span> , (cannot pour
into, '{I} {can\\t} pour {1)

<span id="cannot pour on self">BMsg(cannot pour on self)</span> ,
(cannot pour on self, '{I} {can\\t} pour {the

<span id="cannot pour onto">BMsg(cannot pour onto)</span> , (cannot pour
onto, '{I} {can\\t} pour {1}

<span id="cannot pull">BMsg(cannot pull)</span> , (cannot pull,
'{There}{\\s} no point trying to pull

<span id="cannot purloin container">BMsg(cannot purloin
container)</span> , (cannot purloin container, '{I} {can\\t}

<span id="cannot purloin room">BMsg(cannot purloin room)</span> ,
(cannot purloin room, '{I} {can\\t} purloin a

<span id="cannot purloin self">BMsg(cannot purloin self)</span> ,
(cannot purloin self, '{I} {can\\t} purloin

<span id="cannot push">BMsg(cannot push)</span> , (cannot push,
'{There}{\\s} no point trying to push

<span id="cannot push down">BMsg(cannot push down)</span> , (cannot push
down, '{I} {can\\t} {push}

<span id="cannot push into">BMsg(cannot push into)</span> , (cannot push
into, '{I} {can\\t} {push}

<span id="cannot push own container">BMsg(cannot push own
container)</span> , (cannot push own container, '{I} {can\\t}

<span id="cannot push through">BMsg(cannot push through)</span> ,
(cannot push through, '{I} {can\\t} {push}

<span id="cannot push travel">BMsg(cannot push travel)</span> , (cannot
push travel, 'There{dummy}{\\s} no point trying to

<span id="cannot push up">BMsg(cannot push up)</span> , (cannot push up,
'{I} {can\\t} {push}

<span id="cannot push via self">BMsg(cannot push via self)</span> ,
(cannot push via self, '{I} {can\\t} push {the

<span id="cannot put behind">BMsg(cannot put behind)</span> , (cannot
put behind, '{I} {cannot} put anything

<span id="cannot put in">BMsg(cannot put in)</span> , (cannot put in,
'{I} {can\\t} put anything in {the

<span id="cannot put in self">BMsg(cannot put in self)</span> , (cannot
put in self, '{I} {can\\t} put anything

<span id="cannot put on">BMsg(cannot put on)</span> , (cannot put
on,'{I} {can\\t} put anything on {the

<span id="cannot put under">BMsg(cannot put under)</span> , (cannot put
under, '{I} {cannot} put anything under

<span id="cannot reach">BMsg(cannot reach)</span> , (cannot reach, '{I}
{can\\t} reach {the b} through

<span id="cannot reach out">DMsg(cannot reach out)</span> , (cannot
reach out, '{I} {can\\t} reach {the obj} from

<span id="cannot read">BMsg(cannot read)</span> , (cannot read, 'There
{dummy} {is} nothing to read on

<span id="cannot remove">BMsg(cannot remove)</span> , (cannot remove,
'{The subj dobj} {cannot} be removed.

<span id="cannot screw">BMsg(cannot screw)</span> , (cannot screw, '{I}
{can\\t} screw {the dobj}. ')

<span id="cannot screw with">BMsg(cannot screw with)</span> , (cannot
screw with, '{I} {can\\t} screw anything

<span id="cannot screw with self">BMsg(cannot screw with self)</span> ,
(cannot screw with self, '{I} {can\\t} screw

<span id="cannot see obj">BMsg(cannot see obj)</span> , (cannot see obj,
'{I} {can\\t} see {1}. ',

<span id="cannot set">BMsg(cannot set)</span> , (cannot set, '{The subj
dobj} {is} not something {i}

<span id="cannot set to">BMsg(cannot set to)</span> , (cannot set to,
'{I} {cannot} set {that dobj} to

<span id="cannot show to">BMsg(cannot show to)</span> , (cannot show to,
'{I} {can\\t} show anything to {that

<span id="cannot sit on">BMsg(cannot sit on)</span> , (cannot sit on,
'{The subj dobj} {isn\\t}

<span id="cannot smell">BMsg(cannot smell)</span> , (cannot smell, '{I}
{can\\t} smell {the dobj}. ')

<span id="cannot stand on">BMsg(cannot stand on)</span> , (cannot stand
on, '{The subj dobj} {isn\\t}

<span id="cannot start from here">BMsg(cannot start from here)</span> ,
(cannot start from here, '{I}{\\m} not where {i}

<span id="cannot take">BMsg(cannot take)</span> , (cannot take, '{The
subj dobj} {is} fixed in place.

<span id="cannot take actor">BMsg(cannot take actor)</span> , (cannot
take actor, '{The subj dobj} {won\\t} let {me}

<span id="cannot take component">BMsg(cannot take component)</span> ,
(cannot take component, '{I} {can\\t} have {that dobj},

<span id="cannot take from actor">BMsg(cannot take from actor)</span> ,
(cannot take from actor, '{The subj this} {won\\t} let {me}

<span id="cannot take from self">BMsg(cannot take from self)</span> ,
(cannot take from self, '{I} {can\\t} take

<span id="cannot take immovable">BMsg(cannot take immovable)</span> ,
(cannot take immovable, '{I} {cannot} take {the dobj).

<span id="cannot take my container">BMsg(cannot take my
container)</span> , (cannot take my container, '{I} {can\\t}

<span id="cannot take self">BMsg(cannot take self)</span> , (cannot take
self, '{I} {can} hardly take {myself}. ')

<span id="cannot talk">BMsg(cannot talk)</span> , (cannot talk,
'There{dummy}{\\s} no point trying to

<span id="cannot taste">BMsg(cannot taste)</span> , (cannot taste, '{The
subj dobj} {is} not suitable for

<span id="cannot throw">BMsg(cannot throw)</span> , (cannot throw, '{I}
{can\\t} throw {the dobj} anywhere.

<span id="cannot throw at">BMsg(cannot throw at)</span> , (cannot throw
at, '{I} {can\\t} throw anything at

<span id="cannot throw at self">BMsg(cannot throw at self)</span> ,
(cannot throw at self, '{The subj dobj} {can\\t}

<span id="cannot throw to">BMsg(cannot throw to)</span> , (cannot throw
to, '{The subj dobj} {can\\t} catch

<span id="cannot throw to self">BMsg(cannot throw to self)</span> ,
(cannot throw to self, '{The subj dobj} {can\\t}

<span id="cannot turn">BMsg(cannot turn)</span> , (cannot turn, '{The
subj dobj} {can\\t} be turned. ')

<span id="cannot turn to">BMsg(cannot turn to)</span> , (cannot turn to,
'{I} {cannot} turn {that dobj} to

<span id="cannot turn with">BMsg(cannot turn with)</span> , (cannot turn
with, '{I} {can\\t} turn anything with

<span id="cannot type on">BMsg(cannot type on)</span> , (cannot type on,
'{I} {can\\t} type anything on {the

<span id="cannot unfasten">BMsg(cannot unfasten)</span> , (cannot
unfasten, '{The subj dobj} {cannot} be

<span id="cannot unfasten from">BMsg(cannot unfasten from)</span> ,
(cannot unfasten from, '{I} {can\\t} unfasten

<span id="cannot unfasten from self">BMsg(cannot unfasten from
self)</span> , (cannot unfasten from self, '{I} {can\\t}

<span id="cannot unlock with">BMsg(cannot unlock with)</span> , (cannot
unlock with, '{I} {can\\t} unlock

<span id="cannot unlock with self">BMsg(cannot unlock with self)</span>
, (cannot unlock with self, '{I} {can\\t} unlock

<span id="cannot unplug">BMsg(cannot unplug)</span> , (cannot unplug,
'{The subj dobj} {can\\t} be

<span id="cannot unplug from">BMsg(cannot unplug from)</span> , (cannot
unplug from, '{I} {can\\t} unplug anything

<span id="cannot unplug from self">BMsg(cannot unplug from self)</span>
, (cannot unplug from self, '{I} {can\\t} unplug

<span id="cannot unscrew">BMsg(cannot unscrew)</span> , (cannot unscrew,
'{I} {can\\t} unscrew {the dobj}. ')

<span id="cannot unscrew with">BMsg(cannot unscrew with)</span> ,
(cannot unscrew with, '{I} {can\\t} unscrew

<span id="cannot unscrew with self">BMsg(cannot unscrew with
self)</span> , (cannot unscrew with self, '{I} {can\\t}

<span id="cannot wear">BMsg(cannot wear)</span> , (cannot wear, '{The
subj dobj} {can\\t} be worn. ')

<span id="cannot write on">BMsg(cannot write on)</span> , (cannot write
on, '{I} {can\\t} write anything on

<span id="catch okay">DMsg(catch okay)</span> , (catch okay, '{The subj
iobj} {catches} {the obj}. ');

<span id="circularly in">BMsg(circularly in)</span> , (circularly in,
'{I} {can\\t} put {the dobj} {in iobj}

<span id="click">DMsg(click)</span> , (click, 'Click!'); }

<span id="command full score">BMsg(command full score)</span> , (command
full score, 'full score'), nil, nil, AHREF_Plain)\>\>";

<span id="command interuption prefix">BMsg(command interuption
prefix)</span> , (command interuption prefix, '\<.p\>');

<span id="command look around">BMsg(command look around)</span> ,
(command look around, 'look around'),

<span id="command not present">DMsg(command not present)</span> ,
(command not present, '\<.parser\>That command isnât needed

<span id="command results empty">BMsg(command results empty)</span> ,
(command results empty,

<span id="command results prefix">BMsg(command results prefix)</span> ,
(command results prefix, '\<.p0\>');

<span id="command results separator">BMsg(command results
separator)</span> , (command results separator, '\<.p\>');

<span id="command results suffix">BMsg(command results suffix)</span> ,
(command results suffix, ''));

<span id="container needs to be open">DMsg(container needs to be
open)</span> , (container needs to be open, '{The subj obj} {needs} to
be open for

<span id="corrected spelling">DMsg(corrected spelling)</span> ,
(corrected spelling, '(*{1}*)  
', str);

<span id="current exit settings">DMsg(current exit settings)</span> ,
(current exit settings, 'Exits are listed

<span id="currently no hints">DMsg(currently no hints)</span> ,
(currently no hints, '\<.parser\>Sorry, no hints are currently

<span id="dark desc">DMsg(dark desc)</span> , (dark desc, 'It{dummy}
{is} pitch black; {i} {can\\t} see a thing.

<span id="dark name">BMsg(dark name)</span> , (dark name, 'In the dark')

<span id="debug test now holding">DMsg(debug test now holding)</span> ,
(debug test now holding, '{I} {am} {now} holding {1}.\n',

<span id="debugger not present">DMsg(debugger not present)</span> ,
(debugger not present, 'Debugger not present. ');

<span id="depart aft">BMsg(depart aft)</span> , (depart aft, 'aft')

<span id="depart down">BMsg(depart down)</span> , (depart down, 'down')

<span id="depart east">BMsg(depart east)</span> , (depart east, 'to the
east')

<span id="depart forward">BMsg(depart forward)</span> , (depart forward,
'forward')

<span id="depart in">BMsg(depart in)</span> , (depart in, 'inside')

<span id="depart north">BMsg(depart north)</span> , (depart north, 'to
the north')

<span id="depart northeast">BMsg(depart northeast)</span> , (depart
northeast, 'to the northeast')

<span id="depart northwest">BMsg(depart northwest)</span> , (depart
northwest, 'to the northwest')

<span id="depart out">BMsg(depart out)</span> , (depart out, 'out')

<span id="depart port">BMsg(depart port)</span> , (depart port, 'to
port')

<span id="depart south">BMsg(depart south)</span> , (depart south, 'to
the south')

<span id="depart southeast">BMsg(depart southeast)</span> , (depart
southeast, 'to the southeast')

<span id="depart southwest">BMsg(depart southwest)</span> , (depart
southwest, 'to the southwest')

<span id="depart starboard">BMsg(depart starboard)</span> , (depart
starboard, 'to starboard')

<span id="depart up">BMsg(depart up)</span> , (depart up, 'up')

<span id="depart west">BMsg(depart west)</span> , (depart west, 'to the
west')

<span id="destination unknown">DMsg(destination unknown)</span> ,
(destination unknown, '{I} {don\\t know} how to reach

<span id="distant">BMsg(distant)</span> , (distant, '{The subj cobj}
{is} too far away. ')

<span id="dont break">BMsg(dont break)</span> , (dont break, '{I} {see}
no point in breaking {that

<span id="dont know where gone">BMsg(dont know where gone)</span> ,
(dont know where gone, '{I} {don\\t know} where

<span id="dont need cleaning obj">BMsg(dont need cleaning obj)</span> ,
(dont need cleaning obj, '{I} {don\\t need}

<span id="down">BMsg(down)</span> , (down, 'down')

<span id="drop catch">DMsg(drop catch)</span> , (drop catch, '{The subj
iobj} {fails} to catch {the obj},

<span id="east">BMsg(east)</span> , (east, 'east')

<span id="eat">DMsg(eat)</span> , (eat, '{I} {eat} {1}. ',
gActionListStr);

<span id="empty command line">DMsg(empty command line)</span> , (empty
command line, 'I beg your pardon?');

<span id="exit color change">DMsg(exit color change)</span> , (exit
color change, 'Okay, unvisited exits in the status line

<span id="exit color onoff">DMsg(exit color onoff)</span> , (exit color
onoff, 'Okay, colouring of unvisited exits is now

<span id="exits">BMsg(exits)</span> , (exits, 'Exits:');

<span id="exits from here">DMsg(exits from here)</span> , (exits from
here, 'From {here} {i} could go ');

<span id="exits on off okay">DMsg(exits on off okay)</span> , (exits on
off okay, 'Okay. Exit listing in the status line is now

<span id="explain continue">BMsg(explain continue)</span> , (explain
continue, 'To continue the journey

<span id="explain exits on off">DMsg(explain exits on off)</span> ,
(explain exits on off,

<span id="extinguish">DMsg(extinguish)</span> , (extinguish, '{I} {put}
out {1}. ', gActionListStr);

<span id="fail check">BMsg(fail check)</span> , (fail check, '{I}
{cannot} do that (but the author of

<span id="feel nothing">DMsg(feel nothing)</span> , (feel nothing, '{I}
{feel} nothing unexpected.\<.p\>');

<span id="fiat lux">DMsg(fiat lux)</span> , (fiat lux, '{I} suddenly {1}
glowing. ', gPlayerChar.isLit ? 'start'

<span id="file prompt failed">DMsg(file prompt failed)</span> , (file
prompt failed, '\<.parser\>A system error occurred asking for a

<span id="file prompt failed msg">DMsg(file prompt failed msg)</span> ,
(file prompt failed msg, '\<.parser\>Failed:

<span id="find hidden">DMsg(find hidden)</span> , (find hidden, '\\{1}
{the dobj} {i} {find} {2}\<<span id="finish death">BMsg(finish
death)</span> , (finish death, 'YOU HAVE DIED');

<span id="finish failure">BMsg(finish failure)</span> , (finish failure,
'YOU HAVE FAILED');

<span id="finish game over">BMsg(finish game over)</span> , (finish game
over, 'GAME OVER');

<span id="finish victory">BMsg(finish victory)</span> , (finish
victory,'YOU HAVE WON');

<span id="follow">DMsg(follow)</span> , (follow, '\<.p\>{The follower}
{follows} behind {me}. ');

<span id="follow actor">BMsg(follow actor)</span> , (follow actor, '{I}
{follow} {1}. ', theName)

<span id="forward">BMsg(forward)</span> , (forward, 'forward')

<span id="full score item points">DMsg(full score item points)</span> ,
(full score item points, '\n \<\>
point\<<span id="full score prefix">DMsg(full score prefix)</span> ,
(full score prefix, 'Your score consists of:');

<span id="futile attack">BMsg(futile attack)</span> , (futile attack,
'Attacking {1} prove{s/d} futile. ',

<span id="get recording prompt">BMsg(get recording prompt)</span> , (get
recording prompt, 'Please select a name for the

<span id="get replay prompt">BMsg(get replay prompt)</span> , (get
replay prompt, 'Please select the command log file

<span id="get restore prompt">BMsg(get restore prompt)</span> , (get
restore prompt, 'Restore game from file'),

<span id="get save prompt">BMsg(get save prompt)</span> , (get save
prompt, 'Save game to file'))

<span id="get scripting prompt">BMsg(get scripting prompt)</span> , (get
scripting prompt, 'Please select a name for the

<span id="give">DMsg(give)</span> , (give, 'give {him interlocutor} ');

<span id="going back dir">DMsg(going back dir)</span> , (going back dir,
'(going {1})\n', dir.name);

<span id="going dir">DMsg(going dir)</span> , (going dir, '(going
{1})\n', dir.name);

<span id="gonear">DMsg(gonear)</span> , (gonear, '{I} {am} translated in
the twinkling of an

<span id="hear nothing listen">DMsg(hear nothing listen)</span> , (hear
nothing listen, '{I} hear{s/d} nothing out of the

<span id="hear nothing listen to">DMsg(hear nothing listen to)</span> ,
(hear nothing listen to, '{I} hear{s/d} nothing out of the

<span id="hints disabled">DMsg(hints disabled)</span> , (hints disabled,
'\<.parser\>Hints are now disabled.\<./parser\> ');

<span id="hints done">DMsg(hints done)</span> , (hints done,
'\<.parser\>Done.\<./parser\> ');

<span id="hints not present">DMsg(hints not present)</span> , (hints not
present, '\<.parser\>Sorry, this story doesnât

<span id="id">DMsg(id)</span> , (id, txt, args...) message(#@id, txt,
\##args)

<span id="id">BMsg(id)</span> , (id, txt, args...) buildMessage(#@id,
txt, \##args)

<span id="id">DMsg(id)</span> , (id, txt, args...) message(#@id, nil,
\##args)

<span id="id">BMsg(id)</span> , (id, txt, args...) buildMessage(#@id,
nil, \##args)

<span id="in">BMsg(in)</span> , (in, 'in')

<span id="in room name">BMsg(in room name)</span> , (in room name, 'in
{1}', theName);

<span id="indirect lockable">BMsg(indirect lockable)</span> , (indirect
lockable,'{The dobj} {appears} to use

<span id="input script failed">DMsg(input script failed)</span> , (input
script failed, '\<.parser\>Failed; the script input

<span id="input script failed exception">DMsg(input script failed
exception)</span> , (input script failed exception, '\<.parser\>Failed;

<span id="input script okay">DMsg(input script okay)</span> , (input
script okay, '\<.parser\>Reading commands from â\<\<â

<span id="invalid finish option">DMsg(invalid finish option)</span> ,
(invalid finish option, 'â{1}â was not one of the

<span id="invalid setting">BMsg(invalid setting)</span> , (invalid
setting, 'That {dummy} {is} not a valid

<span id="inventory list conjunction">DMsg(inventory list
conjunction)</span> , (inventory list conjunction, ', and \v');

<span id="jump">DMsg(jump)</span> , (jump, '{I} {jump} on the spot,
fruitlessly. ');

<span id="jump off">DMsg(jump off)</span> , (jump off, '{I} {jump} off
{1} and {land} on the ground',

<span id="key doesnt work">BMsg(key doesnt work)</span> , (key doesnt
work, 'Unfortunately {1} {dummy}

<span id="key not needed">BMsg(key not needed)</span> , (key not
needed,'{I} {don\\t need} a key to lock and

<span id="kiss response">BMsg(kiss response)</span> , (kiss response,
'{The subj dobj} {does}n\\t like

<span id="leads nowhere">DMsg(leads nowhere)</span> , (leads nowhere,
'Unfortunately {1} {dummy} {does}n\\t lead

<span id="list immediate container">DMsg(list immediate
container)</span> , (list immediate container, '{I} {am} {in loc}.
\<.p\>');

<span id="locked">BMsg(locked)</span> , (locked, '{The subj dobj} {is}
locked. ')

<span id="look behind">BMsg(look behind)</span> , (look behind, '{I}
{find} nothing behind {the

<span id="look in">BMsg(look in)</span> , (look in, '{I} {see} nothing
interesting in {the

<span id="look through">BMsg(look through)</span> , (look through, '{I}
{see} nothing through {the

<span id="look under">BMsg(look under)</span> , (look under, '{I} {find}
nothing of interest under

<span id="mention full score">BMsg(mention full score)</span> , (mention
full score, 'To see your complete list of

<span id="move no effect">BMsg(move no effect)</span> , (move no effect,
'Moving {1} {dummy} {has} no effect. ',

<span id="need to hold">DMsg(need to hold)</span> , (need to hold, '{I}
{need} to be holding {the obj} to do that. ');

<span id="no antecedent">DMsg(no antecedent)</span> , (no antecedent,

<span id="no clean">BMsg(no clean)</span> , (no clean, '{The subj dobj}
{doesn\\t need} cleaning.

<span id="no clear exits">DMsg(no clear exits)</span> , (no clear exits,
'It{dummy}{\\s} not clear where {i} {can} go from

<span id="no exit lister">DMsg(no exit lister)</span> , (no exit lister,
'Sorry, that command is not available in this

<span id="no exits">DMsg(no exits)</span> , (no exits, 'Exits: none. ');

<span id="no exits from here">DMsg(no exits from here)</span> , (no
exits from here, 'There {plural} {are} no exits from {here}. ');

<span id="no hints to disable">DMsg(no hints to disable)</span> , (no
hints to disable, '\<.parser\>This game doesn\\t have any

<span id="no interlocutor">DMsg(no interlocutor)</span> , (no
interlocutor, '{I}{\\m} not talking to anyone. ');

<span id="no journey">DMsg(no journey)</span> , (no journey, '{I}{\\m}
not going anywhere. ');

<span id="no longer talking to anyone">BMsg(no longer talking to
anyone)</span> , (no longer talking to anyone, '{I}{\\m} no

<span id="no matched topic">BMsg(no matched topic)</span> , (no matched
topic, '{The subj dobj} {has} nothing to

<span id="no one here">DMsg(no one here)</span> , (no one here,
'There{dummy}{\\s} no one {here} to talk to.

<span id="no oops now">DMsg(no oops now)</span> , (no oops now, 'Sorry,
I\\m not sure what you\\re correcting.');

<span id="no repeat">DMsg(no repeat)</span> , (no repeat, 'Sorry, there
is no action available to repeat. ');

<span id="no response">BMsg(no response)</span> , (no response, '{The
subj cobj} {does} not respond. ')

<span id="no room">DMsg(no room)</span> , (no room, 'There {dummy} {is}
not enough room {1} {2} for {the

<span id="no room behind">DMsg(no room behind)</span> , (no room behind,
'There {dummy}{isn\\t} enough room for {the

<span id="no room in">DMsg(no room in)</span> , (no room in, 'There
{dummy}{isn\\t} enough room for {the

<span id="no room under">DMsg(no room under)</span> , (no room under,
'There {dummy}{isn\\t} enough room for {the

<span id="no sleeping">DMsg(no sleeping)</span> , (no sleeping, 'This
{dummy} {is} no time for sleeping. ');

<span id="no test scripts">DMsg(no test scripts)</span> , (no test
scripts, 'There are no test scripts defined in this

<span id="no thoughts">BMsg(no thoughts)</span> , (no thoughts, '{I}
{have} no thoughts on that particular

<span id="no way back">DMsg(no way back)</span> , (no way back,
'There{dummy}{\\s} no way back. ');

<span id="none in location">DMsg(none in location)</span> , (none in
location,

<span id="none in locations">DMsg(none in locations)</span> , (none in
locations,

<span id="none in owner">DMsg(none in owner)</span> , (none in owner,
'{The subj obj} {doesn\\t appear} to have any

<span id="none in owners">DMsg(none in owners)</span> , (none in owners,
'No {2} {dummy}{appears} to have any {3}.',

<span id="none with contents">DMsg(none with contents)</span> , (none
with contents,

<span id="none with contents in list">DMsg(none with contents in
list)</span> , (none with contents in list,

<span id="north">BMsg(north)</span> , (north, 'north')

<span id="northeast">BMsg(northeast)</span> , (northeast, 'northeast')

<span id="northwest">BMsg(northwest)</span> , (northwest, 'northwest')

<span id="not attached">BMsg(not attached)</span> , (not attached, '{The
subj dobj} {is}n\\t attached to

<span id="not attached to that">BMsg(not attached to that)</span> , (not
attached to that, '{The subj dobj} {isn\\t}

<span id="not closeable">BMsg(not closeable)</span> , (not closeable,
'{The subj dobj} {is} not something

<span id="not enough nouns">DMsg(not enough nouns)</span> , (not enough
nouns,

<span id="not fastened">BMsg(not fastened)</span> , (not fastened, '{The
subj dobj} {isn\\t} fastened. ')

<span id="not holding">BMsg(not holding)</span> , (not holding, '{I}
{amn\\t} holding {the dobj}. ')

<span id="not important">BMsg(not important)</span> , (not important,
'{The subj cobj} {is} not important.

<span id="not inside">BMsg(not inside)</span> , (not inside, '{The dobj}
{is}n\\t {in iobj}. ')

<span id="not interlocutor">DMsg(not interlocutor)</span> , (not
interlocutor, '{I}{\\m} not talking to {1}. ', theName);

<span id="not lit">BMsg(not lit)</span> , (not lit, '{The subj dobj}
{isn\\t} lit. ')

<span id="not lockable">BMsg(not lockable)</span> , (not lockable, '{The
subj dobj} {isn\\t} lockable. ')

<span id="not locked">BMsg(not locked)</span> , (not locked, '{The subj
dobj} {isn\\t} locked. ')

<span id="not on anything">DMsg(not on anything)</span> , (not on
anything, '{I}{\\m} not on anything. ');

<span id="not plugged in">BMsg(not plugged in)</span> , (not plugged in,
'{The subj dobj} {isn\\t} plugged into

<span id="not plugged into that">BMsg(not plugged into that)</span> ,
(not plugged into that, '{The subj dobj} {isn\\t}

<span id="not potable">BMsg(not potable)</span> , (not potable, '{I}
{can\\t} drink {1}. ', fluidName)

<span id="not switchable">BMsg(not switchable)</span> , (not switchable,
'{The subj dobj} {can\\t} be

<span id="not switched on">BMsg(not switched on)</span> , (not switched
on, '{The subj dobj} {isn\\t} switched on.

<span id="not talking">DMsg(not talking)</span> , (not talking,
'{I}{\\m} not talking to anyone. ');

<span id="not talking to anyone">BMsg(not talking to anyone)</span> ,
(not talking to anyone, '{I}{\\m} not talking to

<span id="not understood">DMsg(not understood)</span> , (not understood,
'I don\\t understand that command.');

<span id="not worn">BMsg(not worn)</span> , (not worn, '{I}{\\m} not
wearing {the dobj}. ')

<span id="note main restore">DMsg(note main restore)</span> , (note main
restore, 'Game restored.\<.p\>');

<span id="note with script">DMsg(note with script)</span> , (note with
script, 'Comment recorded. ');

<span id="note without script">DMsg(note without script)</span> , (note
without script, 'Comment NOT recorded. ');

<span id="note without script warning">DMsg(note without script
warning)</span> , (note without script warning, 'Comment NOT recorded.
');

<span id="nothing attached">BMsg(nothing attached)</span> , (nothing
attached, 'There {dummy} {isn\\t} anything

<span id="nothing in mind">DMsg(nothing in mind)</span> , (nothing in
mind, '{I} {have} nothing in mind to discuss

<span id="nothing special">DMsg(nothing special)</span> , (nothing
special, '{I} {see} nothing special about {1}. ',

<span id="nothing to discuss on that topic">DMsg(nothing to discuss on
that topic)</span> , (nothing to discuss on that topic, '{I} {have}
nothing to

<span id="nothing to take">DMsg(nothing to take)</span> , (nothing to
take, 'There{dummy}{\\s} nothing available to

<span id="nowhere back">DMsg(nowhere back)</span> , (nowhere back, '{I}
{have} nowhere to go back to. ');

<span id="obj needs to be closed">DMsg(obj needs to be closed)</span> ,
(obj needs to be closed, '{The subj obj} {needs} to be closed for

<span id="object needs to be open">DMsg(object needs to be open)</span>
, (object needs to be open, '{The subj obj} {needs} to be open for

<span id="off route">DMsg(off route)</span> , (off route, '{I}{\\m} no
longer on {my} route. Use the GO TO

<span id="okay attach">BMsg(okay attach)</span> , (okay attach, '{I}
{attach} {1} to {the iobj}. ',

<span id="okay clean">DMsg(okay clean)</span> , (okay clean,
'Cleaned\|{I} {clean} {1}. ',

<span id="okay detach">BMsg(okay detach)</span> , (okay detach, '{I}
detach {1}. ', gActionListStr)

<span id="okay detach from">BMsg(okay detach from)</span> , (okay detach
from, '{I} {detach} {1} from {the iobj}. ',

<span id="okay doff">DMsg(okay doff)</span> , (okay doff, 'Okay,
{I}{\\m} no longer wearing {1}. ',

<span id="okay fasten">DMsg(okay fasten)</span> , (okay fasten,
'Done\|{I} {fasten} {1}. ', gActionListStr);

<span id="okay get in">DMsg(okay get in)</span> , (okay get in, '{I}
{get} in {1}. ', gActionListStr);

<span id="okay get on">DMsg(okay get on)</span> , (okay get on, '{I}
{get} on {1}. ', gActionListStr);

<span id="okay get outof">BMsg(okay get outof)</span> , (okay get outof,
'Okay, {i} {get} {outof dobj}. ')

<span id="okay lit">DMsg(okay lit)</span> , (okay lit,'Done.\|{I}
{light} {1}. ', gActionListStr);

<span id="okay lock with">DMsg(okay lock with)</span> , (okay lock with,
okayLockWithMsg, gActionListStr);

<span id="okay move to">DMsg(okay move to)</span> , (okay move to, '{I}
{move} {1} {dummy} to {the iobj}. ',

<span id="okay open">DMsg(okay open)</span> , (okay open, okayOpenMsg,
gActionListStr);

<span id="okay plug">BMsg(okay plug)</span> , (okay plug, '{I} {plug}
{1} into {the iobj}. ',

<span id="okay plug in">DMsg(okay plug in)</span> , (okay plug in, '{I}
{plug} in {1}. ', gActionListStr); }

<span id="okay pulled">DMsg(okay pulled)</span> , (okay pulled,
'Done\|{I} {pull} {1}', gActionListStr); }

<span id="okay push into">BMsg(okay push into)</span> , (okay push into,
'{I} {push} {the dobj} into {the

<span id="okay push out of">BMsg(okay push out of)</span> , (okay push
out of, '{I} {push} {the dobj} {outof

<span id="okay pushed">DMsg(okay pushed)</span> , (okay pushed,
'Done\|{I} {push} {1}', gActionListStr); }

<span id="okay set">BMsg(okay set)</span> , (okay set, '{I} {set} {the
dobj} to {1}. ', curSetting)

<span id="okay set to">DMsg(okay set to)</span> , (okay set to, 'Okay,
{i} {set} {1} to {2}', gActionListStr,

<span id="okay turn to">DMsg(okay turn to)</span> , (okay turn to,
'Okay, {I} {turn} {1} to {2}', gActionListStr,

<span id="okay unlock with">DMsg(okay unlock with)</span> , (okay unlock
with, okayUnlockWithMsg, gActionListStr);

<span id="okay unplug">BMsg(okay unplug)</span> , (okay unplug, '{I}
{unplug} {1}. ', gActionListStr)

<span id="okay unplug from">BMsg(okay unplug from)</span> , (okay unplug
from, '{I} {unplug} {1} from {the iobj}. ',

<span id="okay wear">DMsg(okay wear)</span> , (okay wear, 'Okay,
{i}{\\m} now wearing {1}. ',

<span id="only listen">BMsg(only listen)</span> , (only listen, '{I}
{can\\t} do that to a sound. ')

<span id="only smell">BMsg(only smell)</span> , (only smell, '{I}
{can\\t} do that to a smell. ')

<span id="onset of darkness">DMsg(onset of darkness)</span> , (onset of
darkness, '\n{I} {am} plunged into darkness. ');

<span id="or">DMsg(or)</span> , (or, ' or ');

<span id="or list separator">BMsg(or list separator)</span> , (or list
separator, '; or ')

<span id="ordinal out of range">DMsg(ordinal out of range)</span> ,
(ordinal out of range,

<span id="out">BMsg(out)</span> , (out, 'out')

<span id="part of me">BMsg(part of me)</span> , (part of me, '{The subj
dobj} {is} part of {me}. ')

<span id="pointless to jump over">BMsg(pointless to jump over)</span> ,
(pointless to jump over, 'It {dummy}{is}

<span id="port">BMsg(port)</span> , (port, 'port')

<span id="pull no effect">BMsg(pull no effect)</span> , (pull no effect,
'Pulling {1} {dummy} {has} no

<span id="purloin">DMsg(purloin)</span> , (purloin, '{I} suddenly {find}
{myself} holding {1}. ',

<span id="push no effect">BMsg(push no effect)</span> , (push no effect,
'Pushing {1} {dummy} {has} no

<span id="push travel">DMsg(push travel)</span> , (push travel, '{I}
{push} {the dobj} into {1}. ',

<span id="push travel somewhere">DMsg(push travel somewhere)</span> ,
(push travel somewhere, '{I} {push} {the dobj} {1} {the iobj}. ',

<span id="quit query">DMsg(quit query)</span> , (quit query, '\<.p\>Do
you really want to quit? (y/n)?\n\>');

<span id="record off ignored">DMsg(record off ignored)</span> , (record
off ignored, '\<.parser\>No command recording is currently

<span id="record off okay">DMsg(record off okay)</span> , (record off
okay, '\<.parser\>Command recording ended.\<./parser\> ');

<span id="recording canceled">DMsg(recording canceled)</span> ,
(recording canceled, '\<.parser\>Canceled.\<./parser\> '); }

<span id="recording failed">DMsg(recording failed)</span> , (recording
failed, '\<.parser\>Failed; an error occurred

<span id="recording failed exception">DMsg(recording failed
exception)</span> , (recording failed exception, '\<.parser\>Failed;

<span id="recording okay">BMsg(recording okay)</span> , (recording okay,

<span id="refuse command">BMsg(refuse command)</span> , (refuse command,
'{I} {have} better things to do. ')

<span id="remap error">DMsg(remap error)</span> , (remap error,
'**ERROR!** The long form of remap is no longer

<span id="remote contents prefix">DMsg(remote contents prefix)</span> ,
(remote contents prefix, '\<.p\>\\{1} {i} {see} ', irName);

<span id="remote contents suffix">DMsg(remote contents suffix)</span> ,
(remote contents suffix, '. ');

<span id="replay canceled">DMsg(replay canceled)</span> , (replay
canceled, '\<.parser\>Canceled.\<./parser\> '); }

<span id="report close">DMsg(report close)</span> , (report close, 'Done
\|{I} {close} \<\>. ');

<span id="report drop">DMsg(report drop)</span> , (report drop,
'Dropped. \|{I} {drop} {1}. ', gActionListStr);

<span id="report kiss">DMsg(report kiss)</span> , (report kiss, 'Kissing
{1} {dummy}{proves} remarkably

<span id="report lock">DMsg(report lock)</span> , (report lock,
okayLockMsg, gActionListStr);

<span id="report put behind">DMsg(report put behind)</span> , (report
put behind, '{I} {put} {1} behind {the iobj}. ',

<span id="report put in">DMsg(report put in)</span> , (report put in,
'{I} {put} {1} in {the iobj}. ', gActionListStr);

<span id="report put on">DMsg(report put on)</span> , (report put on,
'{I} {put} {1} on {the iobj}. ', gActionListStr);

<span id="report put under">DMsg(report put under)</span> , (report put
under, '{I} {put} {1} under {the iobj}. ',

<span id="report switch">DMsg(report switch)</span> , (report switch,
'Okay, you turn {1} {the dobj}. ', isOn ? 'on' :

<span id="report take">DMsg(report take)</span> , (report take, 'Taken.
\| {I} {take} {1}. ', gActionListStr);

<span id="report turn off">DMsg(report turn off)</span> , (report turn
off, 'Done.\|{I} {turn} off {the dobj}. ');

<span id="report turn on">DMsg(report turn on)</span> , (report turn on,
'Done.\|{I} {turn} on {the dobj}. ');

<span id="report unlock">DMsg(report unlock)</span> , (report unlock,
okayUnlockMsg, gActionListStr);

<span id="restart query">DMsg(restart query)</span> , (restart query,

<span id="restore canceled">DMsg(restore canceled)</span> , (restore
canceled, '\<.parser\>Canceled.\<./parser\> ');

<span id="restore corrupted file">DMsg(restore corrupted file)</span> ,
(restore corrupted file, '\<.parser\>Failed: this saved state

<span id="restore failed">DMsg(restore failed)</span> , (restore failed,
'\<.parser\>Failed: the position could not be

<span id="restore failed on server">DMsg(restore failed on
server)</span> , (restore failed on server,'\<.parser\>Failed, because
of a problem

<span id="restore invalid file">DMsg(restore invalid file)</span> ,
(restore invalid file, '\<.parser\>Failed: this is not a valid

<span id="restore invalid match">DMsg(restore invalid match)</span> ,
(restore invalid match, '\<.parser\>Failed: the file was not

<span id="restore okay">DMsg(restore okay)</span> , (restore okay,
'\<.parser\>Restored.\<./parser\> ');

<span id="reveal move behind">BMsg(reveal move behind)</span> , (reveal
move behind,'Moving {1} {dummy} {reveals} {2}

<span id="reveal move under">BMsg(reveal move under)</span> , (reveal
move under,'Moving {1} {dummy} {reveals} {2}

<span id="route unknown">DMsg(route unknown)</span> , (route unknown,
'{I} {don\\t know} how to get there. ');

<span id="save cancelled">DMsg(save cancelled)</span> , (save cancelled,
'\<.parser\>Canceled.\<./parser\> '); }

<span id="save failed">DMsg(save failed)</span> , (save failed,
'\<.parser\>Failed; your computer might be running

<span id="save failed on server">DMsg(save failed on server)</span> ,
(save failed on server, '\<.parser\>Failed, because of a problem

<span id="save okay">DMsg(save okay)</span> , (save okay,
'\<.parser\>Saved.\<./parser\> ');

<span id="say departing dir">DMsg(say departing dir)</span> , (say
departing dir, '\<.p\>{The subj traveler} {goes} {1}. '

<span id="say departing down stairs">DMsg(say departing down
stairs)</span> , (say departing down stairs, '{The subj traveler} {goes}
down

<span id="say departing through door">DMsg(say departing through
door)</span> , (say departing through door, '{The subj traveler}
{leaves} through

<span id="say departing up stairs">DMsg(say departing up stairs)</span>
, (say departing up stairs, '{The subj traveler} {goes} up

<span id="say departing vague">DMsg(say departing vague)</span> , (say
departing vague, '\<.p\>{The subj traveler} {leaves} the

<span id="say following dir">DMsg(say following dir)</span> , (say
following dir, '\<.p\>{The subj follower} {follows} {the

<span id="say following down staircase">DMsg(say following down
staircase)</span> , (say following down staircase, '{The subj follower}
{follows} {the

<span id="say following through door">DMsg(say following through
door)</span> , (say following through door, '{The subj follower}
{follows} {the

<span id="say following up staircase">DMsg(say following up
staircase)</span> , (say following up staircase, '{The subj follower}
{follows} {the

<span id="say following vague">DMsg(say following vague)</span> , (say
following vague, '\<.p\>{The subj follower} {follows} {the

<span id="say head after actor">DMsg(say head after actor)</span> , (say
head after actor, '{I} {head} off {1} after {2}. ',

<span id="say no">BMsg(say no)</span> , (say no, 'say no')

<span id="say prefix">BMsg(say prefix)</span> , (say prefix, 'say ')

<span id="say yes">BMsg(say yes)</span> , (say yes, 'say yes')

<span id="say yes or no">BMsg(say yes or no)</span> , (say yes or no,
'say yes or no')

<span id="score not present">DMsg(score not present)</span> , (score not
present, '\<.parser\>This story doesnât use

<span id="script off ignored">DMsg(script off ignored)</span> , (script
off ignored, '\<.parser\>No script is currently being

<span id="script off okay">DMsg(script off okay)</span> , (script off
okay, '\<.parser\>Scripting ended.\<./parser\>');

<span id="scripting canceled">DMsg(scripting canceled)</span> ,
(scripting canceled, '\<.parser\>Canceled.\<./parser\>'); }

<span id="scripting failed">DMsg(scripting failed)</span> , (scripting
failed, '\<.parser\>Failed; an error occurred

<span id="scripting failed exception">DMsg(scripting failed
exception)</span> , (scripting failed exception, '\<.parser\>Failed;

<span id="scripting okay">BMsg(scripting okay)</span> , (scripting okay,
'\<.parser\>The transcript will

<span id="scripting okay web temp">BMsg(scripting okay web temp)</span>
, (scripting okay web temp,

<span id="short notify status">DMsg(short notify status)</span> , (short
notify status, 'NOTIFY \<\>');

<span id="should not attack">BMsg(should not attack)</span> , (should
not attack, 'That hardly {dummy} {seems}

<span id="should not kiss">BMsg(should not kiss)</span> , (should not
kiss, 'That hardly {dummy} {seems}

<span id="should not pour into">BMsg(should not pour into)</span> ,
(should not pour into, 'It{dummy}{\\s} better not

<span id="should not pour onto">BMsg(should not pour onto)</span> ,
(should not pour onto, 'It{dummy}{\\s} better not

<span id="show">DMsg(show)</span> , (show, 'show {him interlocutor} ');

<span id="show finish msg">DMsg(show finish msg)</span> , (show finish
msg, '\b\*\*\* {1} \*\*\*\b\b', msg);

<span id="show notify status">DMsg(show notify status)</span> , (show
notify status, '\<.parser\>Score notifications are

<span id="show score">DMsg(show score)</span> , (show score, 'In {1}
turn\<\> you have scored

<span id="show score no max">DMsg(show score no max)</span> , (show
score no max, 'In {1} turn\<\> you have

<span id="show score rank">DMsg(show score rank)</span> , (show score
rank, 'This makes you {1}. ', msg );

<span id="show version">DMsg(show version)</span> , (show version, '{1}
version {2}', nam, ver);

<span id="showHintWarning">DMsg(showHintWarning)</span> ,
(showHintWarning, '\<.notification\>Warning: Some people

<span id="smell nothing">DMsg(smell nothing)</span> , (smell nothing,
'{I} {smell} nothing out of the

<span id="smell nothing intransitive">DMsg(smell nothing
intransitive)</span> , (smell nothing intransitive, '{I} {smell} nothing
out of the

<span id="sorry hints disabled">DMsg(sorry hints disabled)</span> ,
(sorry hints disabled, '\<.parser\>Sorry, but hints have been

<span id="south">BMsg(south)</span> , (south, 'south')

<span id="southeast">BMsg(southeast)</span> , (southeast, 'southeast')

<span id="southwest">BMsg(southwest)</span> , (southwest, 'southwest')

<span id="starboard">BMsg(starboard)</span> , (starboard, 'starboard')

<span id="state follow">DMsg(state follow)</span> , (state follow, '{The
follower} {follows} behind {me}. ');

<span id="suggestion list intro">DMsg(suggestion list intro)</span> ,
(suggestion list intro, '{I} could ');

<span id="talk about">DMsg(talk about)</span> , (talk about, 'talk about
');

<span id="taste nothing">DMsg(taste nothing)</span> , (taste nothing,
'{I} taste{s/d} nothing unexpected.\<.p\>');

<span id="tell about">DMsg(tell about)</span> , (tell about, 'tell {him
interlocutor} about ');

<span id="tell to">DMsg(tell to)</span> , (tell to, 'tell {him
interlocutor} to ');

<span id="test sequence not found">DMsg(test sequence not found)</span>
, (test sequence not found, 'Test sequence not found. ');

<span id="think">DMsg(think)</span> , (think, '{I} {think}, therefore
{i} {am}. ');

<span id="throw">DMsg(throw)</span> , (throw, '{The subj obj} {sails}
through the air and {lands}

<span id="throw at">DMsg(throw at)</span> , (throw at, '{The subj obj}
{strikes} {the iobj} and {lands}

<span id="throw dir">DMsg(throw dir)</span> , (throw dir, '{I} {throw}
{the obj} {1}wards and {he obj} {lands}

<span id="throw falls short">BMsg(throw falls short)</span> , (throw
falls short, '{The subj dobj} {lands} far

<span id="token error">DMsg(token error)</span> , (token error, 'I
don\\t understand the punctuation {1}',

<span id="too big">DMsg(too big)</span> , (too big, '{The subj obj} {is}
too big to fit {1} {2}. ',

<span id="too big to carry">DMsg(too big to carry)</span> , (too big to
carry, '{The subj dobj} {is} too big for {me} to

<span id="too dark to see">BMsg(too dark to see)</span> , (too dark to
see, 'It{dummy}{\\s} too dark to see

<span id="too far away">BMsg(too far away)</span> , (too far away, '{The
subj b} {is} too far away. ');

<span id="too far away to hear">BMsg(too far away to hear)</span> , (too
far away to hear, '{The subj dobj} {is} too

<span id="too far away to hear obj">BMsg(too far away to hear
obj)</span> , (too far away to hear obj, '{The subj obj} {is} too

<span id="too far away to read">BMsg(too far away to read)</span> , (too
far away to read, '{The subj dobj} {is} too

<span id="too far away to see detail">BMsg(too far away to see
detail)</span> , (too far away to see detail, '{The subj dobj}

<span id="too far away to smell">BMsg(too far away to smell)</span> ,
(too far away to smell, '{The subj dobj} {is} too

<span id="too heavy">BMsg(too heavy)</span> , (too heavy, '{The subj
dobj} {is} too heavy to move. ')

<span id="traverse connector">BMsg(traverse connector)</span> ,
(traverse connector, '{1}', depDir.departureName);

<span id="traverse door">BMsg(traverse door)</span> , (traverse door,
'through {1}', theName)

<span id="traverse stairway down">BMsg(traverse stairway down)</span> ,
(traverse stairway down, 'down {1}', theName)

<span id="traverse stairway up">BMsg(traverse stairway up)</span> ,
(traverse stairway up, 'up {1}', theName)

<span id="turn self">BMsg(turn self)</span> , (turn self, '{I} {cannot}
turn anything with

<span id="turn useless">BMsg(turn useless)</span> , (turn useless,
'Turning {1} {dummy} {achieves}

<span id="undo failed">DMsg(undo failed)</span> , (undo failed, 'Undo
failed. ');

<span id="undo okay">DMsg(undo okay)</span> , (undo okay, 'One turn
undone: {1}',

<span id="unknown word">DMsg(unknown word)</span> , (unknown word, 'I
don\\t know the word "{1}".', badWord);

<span id="unmatched actor">DMsg(unmatched actor)</span> , (unmatched
actor, '{I} {see} no {1} {here}.', txt);

<span id="unmatched noun">DMsg(unmatched noun)</span> , (unmatched noun,
'{I} {see} no {2} {here}.', cmd, stripArticle(txt));

<span id="up">BMsg(up)</span> , (up, 'up')

<span id="vague travel">DMsg(vague travel)</span> , (vague travel,
'Which way do you want to go? ');

<span id="wait">DMsg(wait)</span> , (wait, 'Time {dummy} {passes}. ');

<span id="wait to see">BMsg(wait to see)</span> , (wait to see, '{I}
{wait} to see where {he dobj}

<span id="waiting for follow">DMsg(waiting for follow)</span> , (waiting
for follow, '{The subj myactor} {is} waiting for {the

<span id="west">BMsg(west)</span> , (west, 'west')

<span id="with key">BMsg(with key)</span> , (with key, '(with {1})\n',
useKey\_.theName)

<span id="yell">DMsg(yell)</span> , (yell, '{I} {shout} very loudly. ');

<div class="ftr">

Adv3Lite Library Reference Manual  
Generated on 10/05/2013 from adv3Lite version 0.8

</div>
